# Solar-Panel-Optimization-for-Homes
Optimizing the Installation of Solar Panels for Homes using Meta-Heuristic Optimization Techniques

## Renewable energy systems have always seemed the solution to the energy problems available. Not only is renewable energy a clean energy source with little to no emissions but it is also cheaper and most efficient. The number of homes installing solar systems and converting away from inefficient conventional fossil fuel systems increased in recent years; therefore, in this project, 4 meta-heuristic optimization techniques were implemented, 3 of which are population-based and one trajectory-based (Simulated Annealing), which output good results although it’s not a population-based. The population-based techniques used were Genetic Algorithm(GA) which produced the best fitness value but at the expense of time, Grey-Wolf(GWO), which has low complexity and thus converges very fast, and Meta-Verse (MVO), which proved to be superior compared to the others using less time and giving near-optimal results. 


## Optimization aims to generate a near-optimum solution for the renewable energy system that maximizes power output per area used. Optimization of the installation of solar panels for homes is one of the most important areas of application because of the high initial cost. Optimization aims to not only lower the cost required for the installation but also increase the power output per unit area and minimize losses of energy output. Of course, some constraints limit the benefits of our optimization these include: Area of installation (hard constraint), cost of installation, the temperature of an area of installation, and the power output of panel type. By optimization, we aim to improve, improvise, and overcome all obstacles hindering the switch to solar by not only lowering the initial cost of installation but also increasing the power produced and limiting losses of power.

### In this repo, the MATLAB code files can be found, the report of the results, and a database folder which contains all the information about the solar panels selected and the sourse (in the paper) which was researched.
